 TOP SIEM SOLUTIONS
 ---
 
 # What is Security Information and Event Management (SIEM)?
SIEM stands for Security Information and Event Management. 
SIEM products provide real-time analysis of security alerts generated by applications and network hardware.

This term is somewhat of an umbrella for security software packages ranging from Log Management Systems to Security Log / Event Management, Security Information Management, and Security Event correlation. More often than not these features are combined for 360-degree protection.
 
 
 # SIEM capabilities
 SIEM’s basic capabilities are as follows:
    - Log Collection
    - Normalization – Collecting logs and normalizing them into a standard format)
    - Notifications and Alerts – Notifying the user when security threats are identified
    - Security Incident Detection
    - Threat response workflow – Workflow for handling past security events

SIEM records data from across a users’ internal network of tools and identifies potential issues and attacks. The system operates under a statistical model to analyze log entries. SIEM distributes collection agents and recalls data from the network, devices, servers, and firewalls.

All this information is then passed to a management console where it can be analyzed to address emerging threats. It’s not uncommon for advanced SIEM systems to use automated responses, entity behavior analytics and security orchestration. This ensures that vulnerabilities between cybersecurity tools can be monitored and addressed by SIEM technology.

Once the necessary information reaches the management console, it is then viewed by a data analyst who can provide feedback on the overall process. This is important because feedback helps to educate the SIEM system in terms of machine learning and increasing its familiarity with the surrounding environment.

Once the SIEM software system identifies a threat, it then communicates with other security systems on the device to stop the unwanted activity. The collaborative nature of SIEM systems makes them a popular enterprise-scale solution. However, the rise of pervasive cyber threats has made many small- and mid-sized businesses consider the merits of a SIEM system as well.

This change has been relatively recent because of the substantial costs of SIEM adoption. Not only must you pay a sizeable amount for the system itself; you need to allocate one or two members of staff to oversee it. As a result, smaller organizations have been less enthusiastic about SIEM adoption. But that has begun to change as SMEs can outsource to managed service providers.
 
 # Commercial Solutions
 ## 1. SolarWinds Security Event Manager 
 One of the most competitive SIEM tools on the market with a wide range of log management features. 
 The real-time incident response makes it easy to actively manage your infrastructure and the detailed and intuitive dashboard makes this one of the easiest to use on the market. 
 With 24/7 support, this is a clear choice for SIEM.
 ## 2. UnderDefense Co-managed SIEM (FREE MONTH) 
 A managed service provider that specializes in the concept of “co-managed SIEM”, a fairly unique proposal that adds a team of cybersecurity experts and technicians to cloud-based SIEM software. 
 Great for cost optimization and providing 24×7 coverage.
 ## 3. Datadog Security Monitoring (FREE TRIAL) 
 A cloud-based network monitoring and management system that includes real-time security monitoring and log management.
 
 ## 4. ManageEngine EventLog Analyzer (FREE TRIAL) 
 A SIEM tool that manages, protects, and mines log files. This system installs on Windows, Windows Server, and Linux.
 
 ## 5. Splunk Enterprise Security 
 This tool for Windows and Linux is a world leader because it combines network analysis with log management together with an excellent analysis tool.
 
 ## 6. OSSEC 
 The Open-source HIDS Security system that is free to use and acts as a Security Information Management service.
 
 ## 7. LogRhythm NextGen 
 SIEM Platform Cutting-edge AI-based technology underpins this traffic and log analysis tool for Windows and Linux.
 
 ## 8. AT&T Cybersecurity AlienVault Unified Security Management 
 Great value SIEM that runs on Mac OS as well as Windows.
 
 ## 9. RSA NetWitness 
 Extremely comprehensive and tailored towards large organizations but a bit too much for small and medium-sized enterprises. Runs on Windows.
 
 ## 10. IBM QRadar 
 Market-leading SIEM tool that runs on Windows environments.
 
 ## 11. McAfee Enterprise Security Manager 
 Popular SIEM tool that runs through your Active Directory records to confirm system security. Runs on Mac OS as well as Windows.
 
 # OpenSource Solutions
 ## 1. Apache Metron
One of the newest open source SIEM tools, Apache Metron evolved from Cisco’s Open SOC platform. Much like SIEMonster, it also ties multiple open source solutions together in one centralized platform. Apache Metron can parse and normalize security events into standard JSON language for easy analysis. Additionally, it can provide security alerts, data enrichment, and labeling.

Furthermore, Apache Metron can index and store security events, a major boon to enterprises of all sizes.

## 2. AlienVault OSSIM
AT&T Cybersecurity offers AlienVault OSSIM, an open source SIEM tool based on their AlienVault USM solution. Similarly to the above entries, AlienVault OSSIM combines multiple open source projects into one package. In addition, AlienVault OSSIM allows for device monitoring and log collection.

It also provides for normalization and event correlation. 

## 3. MozDef

Created by Mozilla to automate security incident processing, MozDef offers scalability and resilience; the former quality especially appeals to SMBs. This open source SIEM solution uses a microservice-based architecture; MozDef can provide event correlation and security alerts.

Moreover, it can integrate with multiple third-parties. 

## 4. OSSEC
Technically, OSSEC is an open-source intrusion detection system rather than a SIEM solution. However, it still offers a host agent for log collection and a central application for processing those logs. Overall, this tool monitors log files and file integrity for potential cyber attacks. It can perform log analysis from multiple networks services and provide your IT team with numerous alerting options. 

## 5. Wazuh
Wazuh actually evolved from a different open source SIEM solution; namely, OSSEC. Yet Wazuh now stands as its own unique solution. Indeed, it supports agent-based data collection as well as syslog aggregation. Therefore, Wazuh can easily monitor on-premises devices. It has a distinct web UI and comprehensive rulesets for easy IT admin management.

## 6. Prelude OSS
Prelude OSS offers an open source version of the Prelude SIEM solution. This supports a wide range of log formats and can integrate with other security tools. It also offers event data normalization into a standard language which can help support other cybersecurity tools and solutions. Prelude OSS also benefits from continuous development so it stays up to date with the latest threat intelligence.  

## 7. Snort
Another open source intrusion detection system, Snort works to provide log analysis; it also performs real-time analysis on network traffic to suss out potential dangers. Snort can also display real-time traffic or dump streams of packets to a log file. Moreover, it can use output plugins to determine how and where it stores data in your network.  

## 8. Sagan
As a platform, Sagan works almost exclusively with fellow open source SIEM tool Snort; Sagan compliments and supports Snort’s rules. Sagan is designed to be lightweight and can write to Snort Databases. For those interested in working with Snort, this may serve as another essential tool.  

## 9. ELK Stack
This solution also goes by ELK or Elastic Stack. The ELK Stack solution also consists of multiple free SIEM products. For example, using embedded Logstash components, ELK can aggregate logs from nearly any data sources. In addition, it can correlate that log data via a wide array of plugins, although it requires manual security rules. ELK Stack can also visualize the data with another component.

## 10. SIEMonster
SIEMonster straddles the line between free SIEM and a paid solution, as it offers both. As with many of the listed solutions, SIEMonster offers a platform combining multiple open source tools As a result, it does offer a centralized interface for controlling these tools, data visualization, and threat intelligence. 

 # refs
 1. https://www.comparitech.com/net-admin/siem-tools/
 
